---
layout: syllabus
title: "Educator's multimedia studio"
author: 
  - "Matthew X. Curinga"
  - "Aaron Chia Yuan Hung"
---


<!--
This syllabus was created for
the Educational Technology Program
at Adelphi University:
http://education.adelphi.edu
copyright 2012 Matthew X. Curinga
http://matt.curinga.com
This work is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License.
To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/ or send
a letter to Creative Commons, 444 Castro Street, Suite 900, Mountain View, California, 94041, USA.
We ask, but do not require, that attribution includes a link to our websites (above).
version: 2.1
Based on work available here: https://github.com/mcuringa/adelphi-ed-tech-courses
-->

Learning Analytics
==================
**Learning Analytics 0850-723, Fall 2020**

**Keywords:** learning analytics, data science, educational data mining, edm,
tableau software, data visualization

**Description:** In this course we study approaches to understanding data
generated by and from learners, and methods for using this data to improve
learning experiences and outcomes. We learn how to gather and mine educational
data as well as tools and techniques for analyzing and visualizing this data.

> Learning analytics is the measurement, collection, analysis, and reporting
> of data about learners and their contexts, for the purposes of understanding
> and optimizing learning and the environments in which it occurs.\
> _— 1st International Conference on Learning Analytics_

Course Information
==================
- **Course Website**: <https://moodle.adelphi.edu/course/view.php?id=114510>
- **Instructors**
  - Matt Curinga <mcuringa@adelphi.edu
  - Aaron Hung <hung@adelphi.edu>
- **Class meetings:**: Online (Tuesday - Tuesday)
- **Office hours:**: _office hours by appointment_

Course Communications
=====================
This is a _fully online course_. There is no set class time for video chat or
live lectures. However, we will be following a weekly format. You are welcome to
read and work ahead, but we are a learning community and will be discussing the
course materials both formally (on Moodle) and informally each week. This course
begins on Tuesday, May 28 and ends on Sunday, August 11. The course is organized
into weekly modules that will run on a Tuesday-to-Monday schedule.

Participants in this course must actively participate in our suite of online
communications tools, including Slack (<https://auedtech.slack.com>), Adelphi
email, and the course website.

You _must_ check your Adelphi email and the `#learninganalytics` channel on
Slack **at least once a day**. It is highly recommended that you install the
Slack mobile client and an email client on your mobile phone so that you receive
“push notifications” of course announcements.

The best place to post general course questions and any content-related
questions is the ``#learninganalytics` Slack channel. The instructor and course
assistant, as well as other students and alums monitor this channel and often
provide immediate support. You are encouraged to contact the instructors at any
time via email or direct message on Slack.

**Online tools:**

- _Moodle:_ will be used to post the syllabus and links to weekly readings,
  videos, and discussions.

- _Slack:_ will be our main channel for online communications. Please Join our
  Slack team with your Adelphi email. If you run into trouble or have a
  question, post it here to our channel, ``#learninganalytics`, or send a message
  to `@mxc` or `@aaronhung`. During the weeks of the class, we recommend running the
  Slack app for you phone.

- _mail.adelphi.edu email:_ we will use your official adelphi student email for
  class email communications as well as the associated google account for
  video/audio chats and calendar events. Please check this email regularly.

Course Goals
============
Students will be able to:
- explain the purpose, usage and limitations of learning analytics
- explain the ethical implications of using learning analytics
- explain different formats of raw data
- prepare raw data for analysis
- use data mining and business intelligent techniques to spot trends in data
  and implement continuous improvement
- use digital tools for visualizing and reporting numerical information

Required Texts, Materials, and Expenses
=======================================
All course readings and videos will be made available on Moodle or are openly
available online. We will be using a free academic version of Tableau software.
There are no expected costs associated with this course.

Online Resources
================
There are many online resources for data analytics and working with Tableau
Specifically. If you get stuck or want to dig deeper, you might want to start
here.

- [Cleaning, Transforming and Prepping Your Data With Tableau Prep](https://www.lynda.com/Tableau-tutorials/Cleaning-Transforming-Prepping-Your-Data-Tableau-Prep/772331-2.html) <small class="text-muted">Lynda.com course, 2h 28m</small>
- [Tableau Learning Tableau’s](https://www.tableau.com/learn) <small class="text-muted">free online courses and videos</small>
