% Teaching with social media
% Matthew X. Curinga
  Laura Martin

**EDT 613 Teaching with social media**

**Keywords:** social media, social software, educational technology,
social networks, online learning, informal learning

**Description:** Social media pervades our social life; with implications
for education, business and beyond. Examine the sociological and
psychological impacts, benefits and risks of social media. We examine
social networking sites, (micro) blogs, video, and wikis; focusing on
their use in classrooms to build community, develop literacy, and foster
critical thinking.

Social media has become an extremely successful and popular technology
that has made its way into life of the individual as well as education,
business and medicine. Since this technology has become an important
part of society and because it can facilitate social interactions where
people can connect and share thoughts, opinions, special interests and
personal information, it has great potential for teaching and learning.
Educators must have knowledge of this technology and understand it's
sociological and psychological impacts, social benefits, privacy and
security risks and potential applications for education.

## Goals

The student will be able to:

-   Assess the impact of social media on the individual and society.
-   Identify ways in which social media creates new challenges and
    opportunities.
-   Discuss social media privacy, safety and self-presentation.
-   Explain how social media is effected and guided by psycho-social
    dimensions.
-   Engage in the use of social media technologies such as Facebook,
    Twitter, blogs, wikis and video.
-   Analyze and evaluate social media technologies to determine their
    appropriateness, relevance and use for education.
-   Apply reflective analysis.
-   Construct individual and collaborative social media projects.



## Course Readings & Bibliography 
_There are no required texts for this course_.

Barabasi, A. (2003). *Linked: How Everything Is Connected to Everything
Else and What It Means*. New York, NY: Plume. ISBN 0452284392

boyd, D. (2008). *Taken out of context: American teen sociality in
networked publics* (Doctoral dissertation).
[http://www.danah.org/papers/TakenOutOfContext.pdf](http://www.danah.org/papers/TakenOutOfContext.pdf)

Brown, J. S., & Adler, R. (2008). Minds on Fire: Open Education, the
Long Tail, and Learning 2.0. *Educase Review*, *43*(1), 16-32.

Brown, J. S., & Davison, L. (2010). *The Power of Pull: How Small Moves,
Smartly Made, Can Set Big Things in Motion*. Basic Books.

Institute of Psychology, University of Oslo. (2007). A Study of Self
Presentation in the Light of Facebook. Retrieved from
[http://folk.ulo.no](http://folk.ulo.no/).

Knobel, M., & Wilber, D. (2009). Let's Talk 2.0. *Educational
Leadership*, *66*(6), 20-24.

Lewis, S., Pea, R & Rosen, J. (2010, in press). Beyond participation to
co-creation of meaning: mobile social media in generative learning
communities. Social Science Information.

Lewis, S., Pea, R., & Rosen, J. (2010). Collaboration with mobile media
-- Shifting from 'participation' to 'co-creation'. Proceedings of the
Sixth International IEEE Conference on Wireless, Mobile, and Ubiquitous
Technologies in Education (WMUTE), pp. 112-116, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.**(not
in library)**

Namsu, P., & Valenzuela, S. (2009). Being Immersed in Social Networking
Environment: Facebook Groups, User Gratifications, and Social Outcomes.
CyberPsychology and Behavior, 12 (6), 729-733.

Pelling,E.L., & White, K.M. (2009). The Theory of Planned Behavior
Applied to Young People's Use of Social Networking Web Sites.
CyberPsychology & Behavior, 12(6), 755-759.

Pew Internet and American Life Project. (2010). Internet and Social
Media and Mobile Internet Use Among Teens and Young Adults. Retrieved
from
[http://www.pewinternet.org/Reports/2010/Social-Media-and-Young-Adults.aspx](http://www.pewinternet.org/Reports/2010/Social-Media-and-Young-Adults.aspx)

Pew Internet and American Life Project. (2007). Teens and Social Media.
Retrieved from
[http://www.pewinternet.org/Reports/2007/Teens-and-Social-Media.aspx](http://www.pewinternet.org/Reports/2007/Teens-and-Social-Media.aspx)

Shirky, C. (2010). *Cognitive Surplus: Creativity and Generosity in a
Connected Age*. Penguin Press HC. ISBN 1594202532 

Sunstein, C. R. (2006). *Infotopia: How Many Minds Produce Knowledge*.
Oxford University Press, USA. ISBN 0195189280 

Wakefield, M. A., & Rice, C. J. (2008). The impact of
cyber-communication on today’s youth (ACAPCD-14). Alexandria, VA:
American Counseling Association.

*Wallis**, C. (2010). The impacts of media multitasking on children's
learnng and development: Report from a research seminar, New York, NY:
The Joan Ganz Cooney Center at Sesame Workshop.*

Zittrain, J. (2008). *The Future of the Internet—And How to Stop It.
Yale University Press. ISBN 0300124872
[http://futureoftheinternet.org/download](http://futureoftheinternet.org/download)*


## Class Sessions

### Introduction to social media

Introduction to the basic tenants of social media. What is social media?
How do people engage with it? What does social media look like? What are
the positive and negative aspects of this technology.

### Social media and society

Discussion (based on readings) on how social media has become a strong
force in current society. Students will look at how social media has
been used in the business, political and medical sectors.

#### Readings due:
*  Pew Internet (2007 & 2010)

### Social media and teens

Students will discuss (based on readings) how and why social media has
gained a significant foothold in teen life and how teens use and embrace
the various media-rich features of social media to interact on issues.
What does this mean for the K-12 students we teach or will teach?

#### Readings due:
*  Wakefield

### Psycho-sociological aspects of social media

Review of the literature on the sociological and psychological aspects
of what makes social media so popular.

#### Readings due:
*  Wallis; Pelling

### Social media privacy, safety and self-presentation

Special topics on current privacy issues pertaining to the use of social
media. Issues of safety, personal profiling/self-presentation and
identity protection will be discussed.

### Blogs for education

Students will look at the use of blogs in education as a tool for
building writing, reading and higher order cognitive skills. Students
will be introduced to blogs and popular web blogging applications.
Students will work hands-on to develop a special interest blog. Student
blogs will be evaluated for their use, relevance and importance for
education.

#### Readings due:
*  Knobel

### Twitter for education

Introduction to Twitter. Students will work hands-on to develop a
Twitter account and will follow every class member, the professor as
well as 1-2 other Twitter feeds relevant to education or a societal
issue. Twitter will be evaluated for its use, relevance and importance
for education.

### Facebook for education

Introduction to Facebook. Students will work hands-on to develop a
Facebook identity and class group which they will use throughout the
semester. Facebook Apps for Education will be reviewed and used. The
Facebook project will be evaluated for its use, relevance and importance
for education.

*Reading due: Institute of Psychology*

### Social aspects of virtual simulations and games

Introduction to social interactions present in virtual simulations and
games.

### The video revolution and the power of video

Introduction to video creation and sharing through a few of the popular
video sharing sites; YouTube, TeacherTube, Vimeo, Metacafe and Hulu.
Students will evaluate the pros, cons, uses, missuses and value of these
social video environments for education. Students will look at the power
of video to engage, motivate, assist with differentiation and "speak a
thousand words."

### Wikis for education

Introduction to wikis and popular wiki applications; Wikipedia,
Mediawiki, Wikispaces. Students will evaluate wikis for use in
education. Students will work hands-on to construct a class wiki.
Student wikis will be evaluated for their use, relevance and importance
for education.

#### Readings due:
*  Wikipedia Education Project; Wikiversity (online)

### Social media and co-creation of meaning.

Readings on the work of Roy Pea from Stanford University. Class
discussion will follow.

#### Readings due:
*  Pea (selections)

### Critical perspectives on social media - case studies

Students will present/discuss assigned/self-selected case studies on
social media in education, business, politics and education.

### Summaries and evaluations of social media in education

Review, analysis and synthesis of what has been learned about social
media, it's impact on society and on the individual and whether this
particular technology has a place in education.

### Final project presentations

Final project presentations.

## Assignments & Grading

### Class Participation (10%)

Students will be assessed on quality and depth of class discussions, as
carried out through synchronous and asynchronous online activities.
Class participation will be based on weekly session topics and
collaborative work with class members.

### Social Media Activities (20%)

As part of this course, students will immerse themselves in social media
to develop fluency in the tools and evaluate their potential for
education. Students will be assessed on their level of activity, level
of technical skill acquisition and creativity. Students will create
accounts for Facebook, Twitter, Blogger and WikiMedia (Wikipedia,
Wiktionary, Wikitravel, etc.) and will engage in these technologies to
complete mini-class assignments and collaborate with class members.

### Reflection Discussions/Papers (35%)

Students will be given reading assignments, which they will be expected
to read and discuss in class. Their quality and depth of discussion will
be assessed. In addition, students will be asked to respond to a special
topic or issues related to weekly topics by way of a reflection paper.
Some sample reading/reflection topics include:

-   **(Session 2)** How has social media become a strong force in current
    society? How has social media been used in education as well as in
    the business, political and medical sectors?
-   **(Session 3-4)** What psycho-sociological traits do humans possesses
    that makes social media so popular?****How has social media gained a
    significant foothold in teen life and how do teens use and embrace
    the various media-rich features of social media to interact on
    issues? What does this mean for the K-12 students we teach or will
    teach?
-   **(Session 5)** Is social media a threat to privacy? Why are so many
    people willing to part with their “private” data? Beyond the safety
    issues of identity theft, harassment, and personal security, what
    are the negative consequences of mass over sharing through social
    media?
-   **(Session 10)** Discuss how and why video is a powerful learning
    tool.
-   **(Session 15)** Does social media have a place in education?
    Review, analyze and synthesize what you have learned about social
    media, its impact on society and on the individual and whether this
    particular technology has a place in education.

### Final Culminating Project (35%)

Each student will design and develop a fully integrated social media
lesson. The project will be designed in a way that addresses the
parameters for using social media in K-12 education - social aspects,
safety, privacy, student differentiation and pedagogy will be stressed.
Students will also set-up an actual social media environment, using one
of the technologies discussed in class, to support their lesson.

